>> Steve Kinney: Cool,
so let's get started.
Talk a little bit about what do
we mean by the work performance?
And why it matters, except that seemed
good on the slide, I'm actually
gonna answer the why it matters and then
we'll talk about how to think about it.
Mostly it's a self pitch to keep
you interested over the next few
hours it's kind of like giving you
the pitch on why it's important and
then we'll talk about what to do about it.
So why does performance matter?
I think the industry
standard at this point is
to go through a bunch of slides of
statistics as a large appeal to authority,
like this stuff is really important also
you're already watching this course.
Si it's fair to say that I
am preaching to the choir.
But it is not unlikely that you have a
product manager or an engineering manager
that would also need to be, [LAUGH] that
would benefit from this sales pitch.
So we'll do it together, and
arm ourselves in kind of some
of the research behind this.
Jakob Nielsen did a bunch of research
on User interfaces and performance.
A lot of it was really
kind of interesting.
At about a tenth of a second, users feel
that the system is instantaneous, right?
They take an action and
the application has responded.
They don't notice any kind of lag.
That is the ideal.
So a 10th of a second, 100 milliseconds
is kind of what we aim for.
Now is that always possible?
Do we need to make a network
request to do the thing, right?
There's a lot of
considerations to think about.
But we know that users
can not tell anything,
I think Microsoft has done research where
they make that even faster and faster.
And there are imperceptible,
users can notice, but for our purposes,
100 milliseconds is the gold standard.
After about a second,
user's flow of thought is interrupted,
they notice it, right?
They could get distracted, they can
lose the feeling that the application
is responsive and
doing the things that they're asking for.
And then after about ten seconds
it's almost impossible to
keep a user's attention.
Right?
At that point, a shiny object in the
corner has appeared and the user is gone.
Right?
Now granted,
if you have interactions on your
page that take more than ten seconds
we should talk, right?
Ten seconds is a very long period of time.
But it's also not outrageous for
how long it takes a page to load, right?
In a lot of cases if we are writing
JavaScript applications, right?
We not only have to get those
bits to the browser, but
we also then have to build
the application on their machines.
And so that ten seconds is both for
an interaction but going and
visiting the page in the beginning, is
also an interaction with the page, right?
So we want to keep that in mind as well.
Because we know that with a lot of
research that if our page takes too long
to load it will have
impacts on user engagement.
Cool.
So I'm going to show
you some more statistics that
make myself seem smart but
really, collecting other
people's really smart work.
The Aberdeen Group found that a 1
second slow down resulted in 11%
fewer page views and 7% less conversion.
Right?
Page views and conversions for a lot of
applications turn into dollars and cents.
Right?
And,
I write software because I really
enjoy writing software but
I also really enjoy getting paid for
writing software.
So I don't have to do other things.
And I also enjoy the company I work for
making enough money to pay me.
So a lot of times, the performance and
our care about that stuff directly
translates into the work that we do and
it's also about delighting users, right?
Akamai found that a 2 second delay
in web page load time increased
bounce rates by 103%.
So double the amount of people are leaving
if your page is two
seconds slower to load.
A 400 millisecond improvement in
performance resulted in a 9% increase in
traffic at Yahoo, right?
So we can see that there is this
correlation between the performance
of our application and
effectively paying the bills.
Google found that a 2% slower page
resulted in 2% fewer searches,
which given Google's business
model means 2% fewer ads shown and
you can see how that kind of fike
trickles down the entire thing.
100 millisecond improvement in
performance results in a 1%
increase in the overall revenue at Amazon.
Now 1%,
normally doesn't seem like a big impact,
but when you're operating at Amazon scale,
1% is a lot, right?
So there's definitely, we can trace,
the care about performance to
a lot of times business outcomes.
53% of users will leave a mobile site if
it takes more than 3 seconds to load,
right?
So we put all this work and
care into building this website, and
they're not even going to see
it because it took too long.
And I think the one general one
makes a lot of sense in the research
is that if you want your application or
your site to feel faster,
you need to be about 20% faster
than your competitors, right?
So you need to keep that,
we know that that now makes a difference.
So being in fast is important, right?
Yeah, let's do the thing, right?
We have these tried and true things like
minify your assets and of things and
send it across the wire and those have
been true since I started programming.
Right?
But things have changed from
out from under us as well.
So at the same time while being
fast is really important,
it's also a lot harder to
be a fast application.
Applications keep getting bigger and
bigger and bigger.
A few years ago,
the average web application
hIt the point where it was bigger
than the video game Doom, right?
So effectively,
we are sending an entire video game
from a few decades ago every time
someone goes to visit our page.
Not only is that a fun factoid, but
I think looking at the graph is
kind of important to see it's not,
it jumped off a few years ago and
here we are now in web application land.
It's increasingly
increasing as time goes on.
So this is beta.httparchive.org
actually has a bunch of
data on the basic size of the average web
page traction from about 2010 on forward.
And you can see that I hovered
around March 15, 2013.
So five years ago today.
And you can see that the average, the 50th
percentile was about 864 kilobytes, right?
And there's a range there.
But you can see that the average today
on desktop is almost double that.
More than double that and on mobile,
ten times that size, right?
So as, yeah phones are getting faster and
stuff like that.
Not at the same rate that we are shipping
more and more code to the browser.
So it means that we need to start caring
about performance if we hope to keep up.
At the same time, LTE is getting slower,
on two networks in particular.
But in general, as more and
more people get LTE,
the networks are getting more and
more increasingly bogged down.
Which means that as we ship more and
more code, the time to get that code is
taking longer and longer,
which can get a little out of control.
So, we need to, again we need to
be dealing with this stuff because
it's not going to just
magically get better.
The browser is gonna get faster and
the next iPhone is gonna be way better,
I don't have to worry about any of this.
While those things are true,
they don't necessarily,
the rate, is kind of a bigger issue here.
So all right, performance is important,
have I made that point?
Feel good about that?
Convinced?
Sweet.
So the big question is how do we
think about performance, right?
I joked before that you
can gzip your assets and
minify them and stuff along those lines.
Right?
And that's great.
But I think it's really interesting,
I think it's important
to think about the application that
you're working on and what are its needs.
A really great example is if you
think about a content website like
the New York Times or
the Huffington Post or
anything along those lines,
what do they need to do?
What is their biggest priority?
Showing you content, right?
And they need to do that as
instantaneously as possible.
One would argue that's true for
Twitter, or Facebook as well.
Is, you logged in to see your timeline,
and
they need to show it to you as
quickly as they possibly can.
Showing you a load bar is not acceptable.
Right?
You will leave.
You'll be like I should be doing something
else rather than checking on the news.
I'm gonna go back to that real work.
I don't need to do this, right?
And that's kind of what we're
talking about with those like
noticeable percentages, right?
That's when people go, I don't actually
need to be doing this right now.
There is my boss coming.
Command+Tab back to my text editor, right?
But Gmail if you think about it,
we tolerate a loading bar every
time we log into Gmail, right?
Because there is a difference.
On a content set you might be
jumping from page to page to page.
On a site like Gmail on the other hand,
you open up Gmail and you live in it for
the majority of the day.
Maybe you're switching to another tab,
but we're willing to pay that cost once,
because we know that once we pay the cost
for loading the application it's there and
it's alive so
it's more of the of single page app feel.
But for Gmail they need to be a much more
concerned about like memory links, right?
Because if it get slower over time
as the application exist as they're
adding more and more to the so and
so forth, that becomes untenable.
While a page like The New York Times
someone's bouncing from page to page to
page, right?
The priorities are very different for
the applications, right?
So we can tolerate this, but
we would not tolerate from New York Times.
We have to, manage those.
So I'm gonna argue today that there
are three different kinds of performance.
And we're gonna talk about each one
individually rather than just say,
performance do these things that could
have been a blog post of 20 items, right?
We're going to turn,
figure out how we think about performance.
How some of these things
work under the hood and
then use that to inform
what we do about it.
So the three types of performance
that I want to argue exist
are network load performance.
So, okay,
we build client side applications.
Which is a unique problem insofar that,
you would like this application?
Let me send you the source
code to the application and
you can deal with everything.
So we need to get that to the user
before they see anything.
So that's obviously important and
we need to deal with that.
And that is normally when people talk
about performance they're talking about
caching headers and all those kinds and
how do I get you to this
page as fast as possible?
And that's important.
But I also think that especially in the
world of modern single page applications,
that we need to think about okay,
you have the application, now what?
Right?
So we're also gonna talk about parsing and
JavaScript, and
compilation performance, right?
Because again, especially in
the case of a single page app,
we are sending you this entire
application, you go ahead and compile it.
You go ahead and parse the entire source
code, and figure out what it all means and
then build the application.
If we send code that is very
hard to parse and compile.
We wrote it on a $3,000 MacBook.
This is not a $3,000 MacBook,
but my work one,
I didn't pay for it, but
I assume that it's expensive.
We have these expensive machines that
have these high-powered computers.
But we then can send it to a mobile device
that is a lot slower at parsing and
compiling, right?
But we can't do that on our side.
We have to then send it to the user and
hope that they can also parse and
compile it quickly.
So learning how that stuff works under the
hood allows us to kind of one analyze and
make some decisions and see where
the hurt is, and two refactor our code in
such a way that it is easier on the parser
and compiler and all those things.
Finally, we have rendering performance.
So we have it on the page.
Our JavaScript is not just simply a no JS
program that runs in their browser, but
also it is manipulating the page,
it's displaying a user interface.
Right?
Our JavaScript does not live in a vacuum,
but instead has to deal with the dom and
the browser and
all of these other components.
So figuring out how that
entire system works and
how to make sure we don't
hit large roadblocks there.
So three different kinds of performance,
are they equally as important?
I would argue yes, but
the real answer is no, right?
Because again, it matters what your
application needs to do, right?
And where the pinpoints
in your application.
So we'll also talk a little
bit about measuring and
how to figure those things out.
All right, very cool.
So we're gonna talk a little bit about
some numbers to just think about.
We're not gonna obsessed to much about
numbers today, because I think it's
really hard to, okay, every interaction
need to be 100 milliseconds.
You fire up your app and then you've
a got a two second interaction.
I give up, I'm going home for the day.
But having some goals in mind is,
I think really useful.
So Google has this acronym called RAIL.
I guess they could have had other ones
like liar, or anything along those lines,
but RAIL is the one they went for.
And it's basically a set of benchmarks
to think about performance,
effectively goals.
So, RAIL stands for
Response Animation Idle and Load.
And we'll look at those again in a second.
But here's that response part again.
This is how humans perceive interactions.
We saw it before.
0 to 100 milliseconds, instantaneous.
After ten seconds,
I'm going somewhere else, but
even after a second there's
a mental context switch.
Which again is that maybe I
should be doing something else.
So we wanna aim for
under 100 milliseconds.
>> Steve Kinney: Animations,
most screens, I think the new iPad
Pro is a little bit different, but
most of our screens refresh
at 60 frames a second,
which turns into about 16
milliseconds in between every frame.
So that's how often the screen refreshes,
so you go any faster than that,
it doesn't matter,
the screen's not gonna show anything.
But you get slower than that,
and users can start to know that
the scrolling is getting a little janky.
Or the dragging and
dropping, the editor that I worked
on is getting a little weird.
So it's like 16 milliseconds is really
kind of important to think about,
is that you wanna get
a new frame to the screen,
if you're trying to animate anything and
have it look good.
But all those 16
milliseconds are not yours.
The browser's doing other stuff,
some Chrome extensions that are running
are doing other stuff, so
you have to share that time.
Idle is another part of it which is
basically anything that doesn't need to be
done immediately, try to do when
the user's not doing anything.
Okay, now they're reading the article, now
go get whatever creepy tracking software
that you wanna put on there to figure
out what they are doing, right?
Don't do that for the initial page load or
else there is gonna be nothing
to track because they're gone.
And if you can get that done in
15 millisecond chunks, great,
because then if they do do something,
you're ready to deal with that.
Finally, Load.
It would be great if we could get
the entire page under a second,
but otherwise it's ideal for
first meaningful paint.
So what is a first meaningful paint?
It really depends on your application.
If you are Twitter maybe it's that middle
timeline, or mentions or whatever first,
and then you can get the little sidebars
and the search and all of those things.
Trying to get to the first very
important thing in under a second.
Those are important to think about.
We're not going to, like I said before,
obsess over them because I can tell
you I took the whole rail model.
I looked at the application I
worked on and almost cried, right?
Because like those were not anywhere near
the way that I like large desktop apps in
the web browser was working, right?
So I would argue it's about progressively
getting a little better, right?
Figuring out where the areas of
hurt are in your application.
Figuring out how to, okay,
I know this is slow.
That's step one, right?
Step two is figuring out, okay I know how
to read the performance timeline in Chrome
and figure out, come up with some
hypothesis of what to do about it.
And then step three is having some ideas
of what to do, and four is then measuring
to see if it got better or worse,
and stuff along those lines.
So when I was preparing this workshop,
I wrote this blurb of
originally what it was about and
sent it to some of my colleagues.
And one of my former co workers, Romeeka,
came up with an alternative title for
this workshop called, Strategies for
Optimizing Web Performance When,
Honestly, You Have Like
5 Meetings Today and
Have to Choose the Correct Hills
upon Which to Strategically Die.
[LAUGH] Right?
It's very easy for, to watch some
Google IO presentation where it's like,
yes we rewrote the entire application
as a progressive web app and
now it's super fast.
Progressive web apps are actually cool you
should totally watch my course on them.
But it's like that is usually not
something the big rewrite is not
something you're gonna be
able to do tomorrow right?
So the goal here is, given the current
world, given the current state of
the thing that you're working on,
how do we make it faster?
How do we make it better?
And how do we repeat that until slowly but
surely we start approaching
those benchmarks?
So it's important to think
about what matters to you.
And then figuring out how to measure it,
right?
So I talked about, maybe showing
content versus not leaking memory,
that's cool, but it's also hard to
express as a known thing, right?
So figure out in your application what
is actually the important thing, right?
So again, New York Times might care
about the time to first headline.
Twitter might care about how long it
takes you to be able to write a tweet.
Maybe that should be longer for
me some other time, right?
Maybe I need a delay to think about
what I'm tweeting before I type it
into that box.
But for Twitter they wanna probably
get me to tweet as fast as possible.
Whatever the application is, so
I work on a big email editor, right?
Time for the editor to load up so
you can start dragging and
dropping in the modules that you
use to create the email, right?
That might be the important part for
us, how long does it take
between log in to get to the point where
you're creating a new marketing campaign?
That would be an example of something
that would be important for
the application that I work on.